Oh Heck is played with a standard deck of 52 cards where players attempt to predict the exact number of "tricks" they will win.
Cards in each suit rank from high to low as follows: Ace, King, Queen, Jack, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, and 2. Aces are the highest rank, followed by the face cards, and twos are the lowest rank.
The game consists of a series of hands. In the first hand of the game, players are dealt 8 cards, and each successive hand is played with one fewer card until a single card is dealt to every player. After the hand of one card, the number of cards dealt increments back up by one until 8 cards are again dealt. For example, the progression of the number of cards per hand for an entire game is 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
The goal is for each player to bet the number of tricks they think they will win, and then to win exactly that amount. A trick is a collection of one card from each player. To win a trick, one must play the highest ranking card. A hand of 8 cards will have a total of 8 tricks, 7 cards 7 tricks, and so on.
At the start of the game, the dealer is determined randomly. The cards are shuffled and the appropriate number of cards is dealt clockwise starting with the player to the left of the dealer. Once all cards are dealt, the top card of the deck is turned face up to reveal the "trump" suit for the hand. For each subsequent hand, the new dealer is the player to the left of the previous dealer.
The trump suit beats any of the other three suits played in that hand. The ace of the trump suit is therefore the highest ranking card of a hand, and a two of the trump suit is higher than an ace of any other suit.
The bidding for each hand begins with the player to the left of the dealer, then continues around to the dealer who bids last. Players can bid any amount up to the number of tricks including zero. However the dealer has a hook; they cannot bid an amount that will cause the total number of bids to equal the number of tricks available. For example, if there are 8 tricks and 7 bids total, the dealer cannot bid 1. This ensures at least one player will over or under bid their hand and be "set".
The player to the left of the dealer leads the first card, and is followed clockwise. The lead card may be any suit including the trump suit. Each player must follow the suit of the first card. If the player does not have any cards of the leading suit, they can play any other card in their hand including the trump suit. The player who plays the highest trump card, or if there is no trump, the highest card of the suit led, wins the trick. Continue until all tricks have been won for all hands.
Points are awarded only for making the bid exactly, and deducted for missing the bid. Players who successfully bid their hand are given 10 points, plus 2 for every trick bid. For example, a successful bid of 2 will result in a score of 14, (10 + 2 + 2). Players who take more or fewer tricks than they bid are deducted 5 points per trick over/under bid.
Each player has an info bar under their name which displays information about the state of the player. This bar turns green when it is the player's turn. It also displays the number of bids placed. A bid icon will become opaque when a trick is won for that bid. For each trick won that was not bid, a red icon will be displayed. To the right of the bar is the player's score. If the player is the dealer, a small icon is displayed to the left of their info bar.
LEFT MOUSE BUTTON, UP/DOWN/LEFT/RIGHT, and the ENTER key